
Overview of Data
-----------------

Used data from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 
to generate a tidy data set for UCI.

Below is the Original data source of the file.

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

This contains readings of various activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING)
of 30 Volunteers (subjects) wearing a smart phone on the waist.Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope,3-axial linear acceleration
and 3-axial angular velocity for various measures are captured. Data is split into training(70% volunteer's data) and 
test data (30% volunteer's data)
This (tidied) data set only looks at the average of mean & standard deviation measures only for all the 30 volunteers (test and 
training combined) by activity.

Note:- It is not necessary for all the volunteers to do all the activities.

Cleaning and Deriving Data
---------------------------

1) Download data from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip and unzip it a local folder.
2) Open R Console and set "UCI HAR Dataset" as current working directory.
3) Copy R script run_analysis.R to the same directory.
4) Execute run_analysis.R to generate tidy data set in a CSV file ("UCITidyData.csv").

R Commands Refrence
-----------------

1) source("run_analysis.R") - Runs script to generate Tidy UCI data set.
2) read.table("UCITidyData.txt",header=TRUE,stringsAsFactors=FALSE) - Reads the file "UCITidyData.csv", generated by the script(first command).

Data Dictionary
---------------
Total columns in the file will be 82.
Below is the brief description of each column (in the order they appear in the file).

1) SubjectID		-	Contains values between 1 and 30.ID for each volunteer (subject)
2) ActivityID		-	ID for each of 6 Activities. So it ranges from 1-6.
3) ActivityName		-	Name for each of the activity.Various activities are WALKING(ID:1),WALKING_UPSTAIRS(ID:2),
				WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS (ID:3),SITTING(ID:4),STANDING(ID:5),LAYING(ID:6)
4) Column 4:Column 82	- 	These are averages of mean & Standard deviation of various measures.
		

Decription of Variabels
------------------------

Once script is executed , it will create below objects in your R environment

1) test_subject - Contains data read from test_subject.txt 

2) train_subject - Contains data read from train_subject.txt

3) subject - Contains Merged data from test_subject.txt and train_subject.txt

4) test_X - Contains data read from X_test.txt

5) train_X - Contains data read from X_train.txt

6) X - Contains merged data from X_test.txt and X_train.txt

7) test_Y - Contains data read from Y_test.txt

8) train_Y - Contains data read from Y_train.txt

9) Y - Contains merged data from Y_test.txt and Y_train.txt

10) features - contains data read from features.txt

11) mstd - contains list of values whihc represent the position of text containg "mean" or "std" in the features data frame

12) activities - contains data read from activity_labels.txt

13) tdata1 - Merged data frame which contains subject(volounteers),activities tracked for subjects(Y) and measurments of those 
	     actvivities(X).

14) tdata2 - Melted tdata1,where measure are arranged as a variable column (name & value pair).

15) tdata3 - Dataframe conatining avergae of mean and standard deviation measures per Subject (volunteer) and Activity.
